All right.
So as I mentioned in the previous lesson, it's possible that your View app will no longer be compiling
after adding the View router dependency.
So just to show you what it looks like on my end, I'm going to run, NPM, run, serve and things are
going to appear to look to work just fine.
But as it reaches the end of its build process, it's going to give us a couple of warnings on our terminal.
And if you go to your browser, it's going to tell you it failed to compile.
So you're going to see these warnings are coming from a new set of files within the views directory
which previously did not exist.
So let's head to our editor and talk about what this directory represents and why we're having failures
right here.
So you'll notice again, we have a brand new views directory.
Previously we only had a component's directory.
So in views you'll notice two new view component files and they're each going to have this view name
or suffix in their name.
And these are regular view components.
But the key difference is what a view is supposed to represent is a page, right?
Like a specific page at a given root.
So for example, in our app, you might consider a view to be the job results view, right?
It's like the big page.
You can almost think of it like the top of the hierarchy.
It's the very first component that we want view to render when we reach a certain route.
And then that top level view is going to render all of the resulting child components that that page
needs.
And on a different page, as our home page, we're going to have a different view component.
So at any given root, we're going to specify a view that we want to render.
And that view is just the top level view component that in turn renders a whole bunch of other child
components within it.
Previously we only had one kind of top level component in our app and that was app.
But now we no longer have the idea of just one component technically because we have different pages,
and in the context of page to page, one page may have one top level view component and another page
may have a totally different view component and they're totally different visual uses within the app.
Right.
So just to show you how this works, what I'm going to do is I'm going to open up the home view component.
You can almost think of this like a page in our app.
And the reason why we're actually getting a compilation issue is The View.
Seelye tries to add this Hello world component here on line number four, and I also import it here
in line number ten.
This was a component that was available to us when we first created our View app and we then deleted
it.
So it's trying to import a component that no longer exists in the components directory so we can go
ahead and clean this up and remove it and we should be able to compile.
So right here, I'm just going to remove this reference to the import of hello world we no longer need
to instantiated online, for we also don't need this image tag right here because we do not have the
logo PNG file that it is referencing.
And in fact to keep this super simple, let's remove the div here as well and just put an H1.
I'm going to give it a couple sample tailwind classes just so it's prominent and easy to see on the
screen.
I'm going to make the text pretty big with the Text six Excel class and I'm going to make the font bold
with the font bold class.
And I'm just going to put the name here.
I'm going to say home view.
All right.
And then right here as well, we are referencing the former Helloworld component, which no longer exists.
So we can just remove this and notice, as always, that we have our home view component right here,
the name that is, which is the exact same as the component file name.
And again, just notice that this view, as we call it, is a plain regular component, right?
There's no actual technical difference.
The reason we simply call it a view and the reason we put it in a separate view's directory is because
it's supposed to represent the beginning of a page, the top level pyramid component, the top of the
hierarchy of components at a given root.
That's going to begin that cascading effect of rendering all of the children and grandchildren and so
below it.
So if I go to my about view, we have a very similar set up here.
This is just another top level page.
And we're going to see later how view and the class set this up for us.
But in here we can do something very similar.
We can just get place in each H1 here, add a couple classes, let's do the same one.
So text six Excel and Font Bold and I'm just going to put about view right here.
And so that's best practice.
Let's also add our script tag and let's export default a JavaScript object and we'll put a name here
and we'll of course call it about view.
Okay.
So at this point, if I go back to my terminal, we should see that it is successfully compiling so
it's able to find all imports.
And if I had to my browser.
We're going to see this.
Now, don't worry about everything that we've built so far.
It's not lost.
We're simply not rendering it on any of our views.
And that's why we don't see everything we built.
We're going to bring it back into the app and just a lesson or two.
But the good news about not seeing all of our previous work is we get a much cleaner example of how
view router works.
So as I mentioned, we have two views in our app.
We have two top level pages and they are home and about.
Right.
And the way that this example is set up for us is you can imagine that this thing right here is a top
level navigation menu, very similar to the main nav we have on our site.
And as I hover my mouse over it, you'll notice in the bottom left corner the URL will change.
So as I hover over home, you'll see it is just the slash route.
And as I go to about you'll see that it's now slash about.
So this is a different URL, it has a different route, it is a different path.
It is a different destination for the user to visit.
And what's going to happen when we click on about will notice right here the URL changes.
So it's almost like the user has navigated to a different page on our website.
And what do we see here?
We see a totally different view.
We're now predictably rendering that about view.
That we just saw in our editor.
So we have gone from rendering this view, which is the first one to telling view to tear this one down
and then render this one right here.
And of course, what view router has done for us, what it's doing behind the scenes is it's watching
this URL and it knows which top level view component which view in our views folder to render at a given
route.
It knows at the home route or the slash route route right here that it should render the home view.
And at this slash about URL, it should render a totally different view, which is the about field.
Okay, so I hope that introduction is not too complex.
The reason we usually does this thing is just to show us how easy it is to navigate from URL to URL
and show a totally different top level view component, which again is called a view and is stored in
the views directory within the project.
But we're going to use this exact same principle to build the navigation in our jobs website to allow
the user to go from the home page to the job results page, for example.
All right, so that's all there is to cover it in this lesson.
And I will see you in the next one.